Parachain Lease Extension Explained (#3594)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-auction.md

Charlie's valuation for the entire range is `600`. Therefore Charlie is awarded the complete range
of the parachain slot.

## Parachain Lease Extension

Before the slot lease expires, parachains have to bid and win another auction for continuity of the
lease. To avoid any downtime in connectivity and minimize the risk of losing a subsequent auction, 

> parachain teams need to plan well ahead to bid on and secure an adjacent slot before their current 

Reviewer: I think what you mean here is "temporally adjacent", but even this is slightly incorrect. I would just remove the word "adjacent". I'd also remove the "well". 

```suggestion
parachain teams need to plan ahead to bid on a slot before their current 
```

> lease period ends. Explained in the section above, each slot auction lets you bid for 8 LPs

Reviewer: I thought we were going to change this terminology to "parachain lease auction", since teams are really bidding for a lease on the slot?

Reviewer 2: Agreed. Changed the terminology.

(Lease Periods) which enables two scenarios for the parachain's lease extension -

### Lease Extension with Overlapping Slots

> Aquire a slot where the first LP is before the last LP of the current slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Acquire a slot where the first LP is before the last LP of the current slot.
```

- Register a new 'paraId'
- Win a slot auction with the new 'paraId'

> The parachain team will have access to two slots: one that will end soon, and one that just started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parachain team has access to two slots: one that will end soon, and one that just started.
```

> Both slots will have at least one LP in common. When the old slot transitions to their last LP, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both slots have at least one LP in common. When the old slot transitions to their last LP, 
```

the parachain can [swap](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/pull/4772) the slots. This can be 
done via [on-chain governance](https://kusama.polkassembly.io/post/1491). The 'swap'
call is available in the 'registrar' pallet. 

![Parachain Slot Swap](../assets/para-swap.png)

> It is also possible to perform slot swap via XCM.

Reviewer: I think this sentence belongs to the next paragraph, "The slot swap via XCM.."

Reviewer 2: Yeah, seems redundant. I'll delete this line

:::note Any two parachains can swap their slots via XCM

The [slot swap via XCM](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/pull/4772) requires two live parachains
to send an XCM message to the relay chain to approve the swap. A parachain team with access to two 
overlapping slots can start a shell parachain on the new slot and swap it with their actual parachain
on the old slot, thus ensuring continuity of the lease.

:::

### Lease Extension with Non-Overlapping Slots

> Aquire a slot where the first LP starts right after the end of the last LP of the current slot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Acquire a slot where the first LP starts right after the end of the last LP of the current slot.
```

In this case, the parachain can bid directly with their current 'paraId', and it will be automatically 

> extended without the need of swapping. This method has the advantage of not having superposing LP's on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
extended without the need of swapping. This method has the advantage of not having superfluous LP's on 
```
